Final Sunday, if you hadn't picked up on the keys, we're going to be looking at praise from Psalm 148.
So I invite you to follow along in your own personal Bibles or you can follow along on the screens as well.
As I read the word "allow," so here we are with Psalm 148.
Thank you.
Praise the lord!
Praise the Lord from heavens.
Praise him in the heights.
Praise him, all his angels.
Praise him all his hosts.
Praise him, sun and moon. praise him, all you shining stars.
Praise him, your highest heavens,
And your waters above the heavens.
And let them praise the name of the Lord, as he commanded, and they were created.
He established them forever and ever. He fixed their bounds, which cannot be passed.
Praise the Lord from the earth, you sea monsters in all depths.
Fire and hail, snow and froth,
Stormy wind fulfilling his command.
Mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars.
Wild animals and all cattle, creeping things and flying birds.
Kings of the earth, and all peoples, princes, and all rulers of the earth.
Young men and women alike, old and young together, let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted.
His glory is above earth and heaven, and he has raised up a horn for his people, and prays for all his faithfulness.
For the people of Israel who are close to him.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
Well, so, praise.
Worship.
And that's what this message is going to be about today, y'all.
so for this past year everything that we've done on sunday morning has that core.
Component
of worship.
And praise.
And so what does that mean? What does that mean for us? What does that mean for God's people? What does that mean for creation?
Well, you know,
This whole entire world
Was created.
In the image of God by God,
And one of the main purposes
creation is to praise and worship Him in all things that we do.
When we pass on to glory
When you read in Revelations, when the new heaven and the new earth is created,
You will see that all that we do will be worship and praising God.
And all that we do, that will be our entire existence.
Now,
There are some things that we do
With praise and worship.
right there's some things that this earth has and in regards to praise and worship
That sometimes just happen automatically.
Okay.
Just think about the human body, for instance.
Right?
Do you really have to tell yourself,
To breathe.
Or do you kind of just naturally breathe?
On your own.
Now you can hold your breath for a minute and I wouldn't recommend doing it too long or you'll pass out.
But,
You really don't have to tell yourself and remind yourself to breathe.
there is your heart, right? And you don't really have to
Consciously,
Tell it to beat.
Right? It just kind of automatically...
Does that.
and so when you think about these things the body that happen automatically right.
Think about praise and worship and within creation.
These things tend to happen automatically as God has created it.
Praise the Lord is not a suggestion.
If not,
A mood.
it is it is called to recognize what is happening in our current state.
Psalm 148 comes at the end, towards the end of the book of Psalms.
All right.
and psalms has a.
A lot of emotion in it when you read all the Psalms. There's anger, there's anxiety,
There's excitement.
And of course, as you get towards the end of all of these emotions and things that you find in Psalms, you get towards 148 and you end it on a high note.
With the call to praise and worship and understand and recognize that
As part of our existence.
So when you look at the psalm, we break it down 148, you look at the first six verses.
Okay?
And when you look at the first six verses,
It talks about praising the Lord.
Praise him, all his angels.
Praise him all his host.
Praise him, sun and moon,
Praise him, all you shining stars!
"'Pray, send you highest heavens and you waters above the heavens.'"
Let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded, and they were created.
You see, when you look at this,
There's first six verses here in this praise and worship that
It's talking about heavens and heights and angels and suns and moons and stars and waters above the heavens.
Before, eh.
Human voice.
A single human voice.
enters into the scene.
Praise is already happening.
And notice why they praise.
Why these items and these things tend to praise us? Because for he had created...
them for they were created creation praises God
Simply by being what God
Made it to be
And so when we look at these things, this praise and worship that kind of comes before even the human voice enters the scene,
You take a look at this, and it makes me think of, in the Methodist world, we talk about prevenient grace.
This grace that goes before us, that woos us.
that calls us before we even know that there is grace there. God is already putting things into place.
to bring us to him and so when we look at these things in creation
The heavens, the heights, the angels, suns, moons, the stars, these things are entering the scene before we even come on board.
And we do our praise.
Praise does not begin with us.
It begins with God and his creation.
Then the psalm moves into verses 7 through 10.
And it begins to focus more on things of this earth.
Sea creatures.
And the depth
Which I love that someone said, what's a sea creature? Sharks, right?
And all these things in the ocean, good, scary,
bad things that we don't want to come across when we're in the ocean, right? But sea creatures in the depths.
Fire, hail, snows, storm, mountains and hills, trees and animals.
All of this.
All of these things.
All of God's creation praises and worships Him.
Even in chaos,
There is worship.
And there is praise.
And this is important.
Psalm 148 does not say that creation,
Praise is God when everything is great and good and going on. It's just the way we want it to, right?
We even praise and worship when things are not good.
When it's hard to.
Creation when things are in chaos still
Worships and praises God.
And then we get into verses 11 through 13 towards the end of the psalm. And now we start to look at...
Us, right? People.
Thank you.
rulers.
Young and old.
Women and men.
All people.
There's no exclusions.
There's no hierarchy.
when it comes to God, right?
It is all of his.
Human creation.
Okay.
We all
We praise and worship God in all that we do.
And praise is grounded in God's faithfulness.
it says he has raised up a horn for his people
For the people of Israel who are close to him.
It is God's covenant who...
Calls us into relationship
And promises to be in relationship with us.
As we worship.
As we praise.
Praise flows from this relationship with our creator.
And relationships are so important.
They're so important.
Relationships with our creator and relationships with each other.
When we look back on this past year,
A lot has happened.
We look at the life of the church.
We've had a lot of great new things happen here. New people have come and joined our church.
We've had new ministries.
God has truly blessed this church. it has set us up.
To do great and wonderful things in response to his love.
Ways that we can show our worship and praise to him.
and i'm excited about next year because next year we've got a lot of great things happening we have a great rhythm here at the church.
just as our heart continues to beat in our own bodies, this church has its own beat and its own pulse, its own rhythm, that's all connected to praise and worship.
And we don't need to forget that.
that we're created for this.
And so next year, I'm excited.
We've got many new opportunities before us as a church.
And it's appropriate for us to reflect upon these things as we worship on our last Sunday of 2025.
It's hard to believe that time march is on and we're looking at a new year.
And as we look upon a new year, many people reflect on what God and what their life is moving towards.
And what we are called to be.
and so we have great things ahead of us and i don't want us to to forget that.
and get thrown off our rhythm of worship and our pulse.
Of being connected to god.
There's going to be things that come up.
That might try to throw us.
There may be things of anxiety, there may be distractions, we may get tired,
doing the good work, but we are called to soldier on.
and share the good news of Jesus Christ to this broken world.
Just think back to the time where you first heard the good news.
and how that really impacted your life.
And how that changed who you are.
It made you realize that why you were created
You were created to love, to worship,
To be the image of God.
And so when we look at this, there are times that are difficult,
But we're still called to praise and worship.
that this is what we are made to be.
and so when we look in our tradition of of the united methodist church.
Worship is not just something that we go and do and attend.
It is something that shapes us.
And the repeated practices of prayer,
Reading scripture
Observing the sacraments
Singing songs and hearing the the Lord preached and praise week after week.
We return to worship because not
that because life is always good, but it's because God is good.
We do these things to draw ourselves nearer to our Creator.
And praise is how we remember who we are and whose.
We are.
So Psalm 148 reminds us that praise is already happening all around us.
The heavens are praising, the earth is praising, creation is alive with worship.
And the invitation is simple.
Sometimes not always easy.
Will we align ourselves with praise and worship?
Will praise be the heartbeat that steadies us in both joy and joy?
And struggle.
Because when praise and worship becomes the pulse of our lives, we find ourselves closer to God.
Whose glory is above heaven and earth and his love is always near.
you know you know
They...
As someone who's a minister and preacher of the word.
I will say, and be honest, there are some days
Where praise and worship is hard.
I'm human.
Like many of y'all.
Like all of y'all, actually.
You're not human. You're not human.
And so there are times where,
I don't feel good.
you know i've been a victim of flu a this holiday season i'm better not contagious.
but i still have this lingering cough.
And you know, there are days where it's hard.
You know, to be honest, to even be a pastor, to get up and praise and worship and lead and worship.
But I'm reminding myself, as I remind you, that sometimes it is hard.
but yet
We're to be thankful that we are created.
That we have a God that loves us.
that doesn't forsake us, that sent His Son.
To come save us from ourselves and to die our death on the cross?
you know we just celebrated christmas right?
We just celebrated the birth of the Christ child Emmanuel, God with us.
God wants to be in relationship with us.
He wants us to worship and to praise him.
Even when it's difficult when we don't feel like we can
We're called to carry on.
We are to recognize that we are loved and not forgotten.
And we are also called to share that good news.
To the broken world in which we live.
You know, there are a lot of folks who haven't realized how much they are loved.
They don't understand that they were created for a purpose.
That they are created for worship.
and praise.
And so it is our job to go out there
and to share that message with the world in all that we do, wherever God has placed us in our lives.
We are to go out and worship and praise Him.
And invite others to remember why they were created.
And to help people remember that they are loved.
That there's nothing they can do
That can turn away God's love from them.
But each and every day is new.
And so we're called to get up.
With excitement,
To worship and praise him in all that we do.
At thom 148.
It reminds us this.
That this is the rhythm and the pattern of our lives.
That every day we are to remember this.
To not let exhaustion and anxiety get in the way and be the voice
That overcomes us.
But we are too.
worship and praise in all that we do.
So as we reflect upon this past year,
The good and the bad.
May we look forward with hopeful hearts.
With hearts of worship and praise?
With excitement of where God is going to lead us as a church.
And where God is...
Prepping and leading you in your own lives, in your own journey, in your own stories.
And may we go forth with faithfulness.
And we get four
with excitement.
And may we share the good news.
Of Jesus Christ to all those
That are around us.
Let us pray.